ASTROSMASH
Cartridge Instructions
(For 1 Player)

The sky IS falling! Chicken Little was right! You're the laser battery 
Commander and HERE THEY COME!...an attack of multicolored meteors 
with an occasional spinning bomb that will blow up one of your guns 
if you let it land, AND -- to really make life interesting, some guided 
missiles and an Attack UFO! As your score goes higher, so does the 
excitement!

OBJECT OF THE GAME
To hit as many meteors, bombs, missiles and flying saucers as 
possible, without being hit yourself. As your score grows higher, the 
game speeds up and gives you more challenge. Take turns with your 
friends to see who can get the highest "peak score"!

SELECT GAME SPEED
Played at any of 4 skill levels. When you see the game title:

Press RETURN to play at the top level. 
Press 1 (Auto-Fire) to play at easy level.
Press 2 (Single Shot) to play at easier level.
Press 3 (Hyper Space) to play at easiest level.

Then press RETURN to start game.

CONTROLS
Fire: Any SIDE ACTION button
Auto Fire mode: press 1
Single Shot mode: press 2
Hyper Space: press 3
Move left: left side of DISC
Move right: right side of DISC

GET READY!

1. Move your active laser gun left and right by pressing DISC.

2. When you are under a falling rock or other object, FIRE by 
pressing ANY SIDE ACTION BUTTON (or press AUTO FIRE [1] and the 
computer will shoot 3 times each second for you). For rapid fire, use 
SINGLE SHOT mode, keep depressing SPACE BAR and tap the DISC.

3. Hit as many rocks as you can -- every one that lands reduces your 
score.

4. Be sure to hit every white "spinner"! Try to hit or avoid guided 
missiles and attacking UFOs (which appear when your score is over 
20,000 points)!

5. Every time your peak score goes up another 1,000 points, you get 
another laser gun in your arsenal.

6. Scoring formula:

Your score goes UP when you hit...

Big Rock = 10
Small Rock = 20
Big Spinner = 40
Small Spinner = 80
Guided Missile = 50
UFO = 100 (appears on level 4 and above)

Point values are multiplied by the level number.

Your score goes DOWN when...

Big Rock Lands = -5
Small Rock Lands = -10
Your Gun Is Hit, or a Spinner Lands = -100

Point values are multiplied by the level number.

Scoring level changes:

1x  level : Black background : Score up to 999
2x  level : Blue background : Score 1,000-4,999
3x  level : Purple background : Score 5,000-19,999
4x  level : Turquoise background : Score 20,000-49,999
5x  level : Gray background : Score 50,000-99,999
6x  level : Black background : Score 100,000 and over

NOTE: EVERYTHING SPEEDS UP AND YOU HAVE MORE TARGETS AND 
ATTACKERS, MOVING FASTER, AT THE HIGHER SCORES ESPECIALLY 
WHEN THE TOTAL PASSES 100,000, 200,000, 500,000 AND ONE 
MILLION POINTS!

7. When you hit a rock and it splits in two, try to hit both of those 
fragments: they each give you twice as many points as the original 
big rock!

8. Whenever you see a white object, concentrate on avoiding it or 
shooting it down...

* White spinners (big and small): Be sure to hit every one you can -- 
if one lands, you lose a laser gun (when you lose them all, the game 
is over).

* Pulsating guided missiles: will seek out your active laser gun and 
blow it up on impact! If you can, get directly under a GM while it is 
correcting course, and shoot it! If the missile gets to the ground, 
sometimes it will home in on your laser, flying horizontally. If this 
happens, your only chance of escape is to go into HYPER SPACE! 
(move instantly to another place).

When you press HYPER SPACE (3) your laser will immediately move 
to the left or right a random distance determined by the computer. 
The guided missile will attempt to follow you there, and you might 
have to go into HYPER SPACE more than once -- and risk finding 
yourself under a falling rock!

* Attack UFOs: appear occasionally when your score is over 20,000 
points. They sweep across the screen, aiming huge bombs at your 
active laser gun. The bombs fall slowly enough for you to move out 
of the way. Keep moving! Try to get directly beneath the UFO and 
directly beneath the UFO and shoot it down!

9. Do not shoot at falling rocks that are very close to your active 
laser, as the explosion may produce shrapnel and blow up your gun.

10. When you get good at ASTROSMASH, the game can go on for some 
time. If you want a break in the action, remember the "interrupt 
code" (press 1 and 9 simultaneously).

Restart by pressing either Disc.
----------
©1981, 1998 Intellivision Productions, Inc.

